Hello, dear listen, and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain.
The only Space 1999 commentary podcast that believes that immortality would be tolerable so long as you get the decor right.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm James, although probably not the one you expected.
Oh James.
And for this month, I'm Uranus Probe from 1986, but still flight worthy.
Oh Uranus probe.
It's the me thing.
So we're watching series one, episode five, probably Deaths of the Dominion, which is the 1st appearance of Sir Brian Blessed in the program, and doesn't he look beautiful?
Disturbingly so.
Yeah, yeah.
I was, I was, I found myself quite surprised by how much I wanted to run my fingers through his beard pretty much.
There are berries on the menu.
Yes, he is looking fine.
Can I ask you about the menu, please?
Yes.
Have we seen this before?
I suspected that there was something too gory for it to appear on TV, but I'm assured that that's not true. remember it very well.
I remember the lovely Frosty Caves.
I remember 1st time round, which would have been 1976.
What about you, James?
Thinking.
I don't remember it, except very vaguely. very young at the time.
Yeah, I know, much younger than the rest of us.
Of course, pause for effect.
No, I remember I remember thinking how exciting.
And Roger Maury, the caves.
It really?
So Roger Moorish.
All that expanded Styrofoam and lusty 1000000 year old, you know, rack of Welsh bikini outfits everywhere.
And then, of course, we get one or 2 Bond babes in this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
More later.
But really, it just felt, like, stylish, isn't it?
It's got a very definite sort of Spain thing happening, but it sort of Spain crossed with, you know, your school friend's house in a lovely suburb.
It felt like a millionnaire, a billionaire's passion pit, really.
It was a Bong villain's little getaway room he didn't tell his wife.
I was amazed by how many Flaccati rugs they sent to me.
Exactly.
That Uranus probe really had a lot of furry gadgets in it, didn't we?
And went back to blind blizzard.
Yes.
Well, I think that there are oxen on the surface of the planet.
They do mention that.
The rough grass.
And so perhaps...
So chafing to the...
Perhaps they've been hunting to the unprepared.
But it is kind of a bit sexy, isn't it?
Particularly, they're all sleeping in the same room because we only have one set.
And it is an expensive set.
It does look like Hoth only they've had Sir Can Adam here.
Yeah, yeah. they just they just more they just roger more it up.
I do notice that... with aberleg warmers.
Yeah.
Yeah, there is a bit of Aber in this too.
But I also like that the principal heating device seems to be GHD hair curlers because all the girls are perfectly crimped.
It's again just a reminder of how sexy everyone is in this show.
It might be bleak, but it's always a bit hot.
Yeah, yeah.
There's just lots of models, aren't there?
Lots of models.
Brian Blessant has a muscle, like has some bodyguard guy.
I saw that expression.
Yeah, he's hot.
So what do you think?
Should we go in?
I think we should go in.
So I have a keyword, which I am going to say in a minute, and the 2nd time I say that word, Brennan's going to press play on the Blu-ray.
Just before we start, I'm a bit disappointed.
This menu here doesn't have the little dials at the bottom like on the Blu-ray that has the ones you find in the cereal packet.
Are you talking about the new imprint set?
Oh, because this is the beautiful network one.
This is the network. which was the established best of until the imprint one.
Yeah, so the imprint one where it looks like one of those sort of control panels in a moon-based alpha corridors. and it just plays subtle white noise.
Yes.
And it's got the little decoders on the bottom.
I think, yeah, the imprint one is a more elegant interface.
But this is definitely more sort of period.
Although it actually feels like one of the VHS reissues of the 80s, doesn't it?
With lots of added optics for exciting extra stuff.
It is exciting, I have to say.
All right.
So the word is, of course, Uranus, inevitably.
And the next time I say that word, I want Brendan and the listener at home to press play.
On the eur or the us?
Let's say on the arse.
Yeah, it's always on the arse.
Yeah, right.
Sorry, Belima.
It's always on.
You're assuing the ane altogether.
Yep.
Leaving it out.
All right.
Here we go.
Uranus.
And we're off. to you, mate.
So the great thing about this, they have one of these computers down on the planet, and in fact, that's what it is.
So we thought that that was a shot.
We think their moon Bay South.
Yeah, exactly.
Delightful John Shrapnel.
Is this the point?
We'll get to it later, that this is a proper RSC, a national theatre cast.
Lots of Shakespearean.
Yeah, yeah.
I was just going to say poor Tom's are cold.
Yeah, but it is iambic pentameter on ice, isn't it?
Well, in fact...
Yeah, he says, he says that self-same orb whose unforgiving eye beheld the birth of Caesar.
He's describing the moon, and that is just a perfect iambic pentameter.
And there's heaps of that.
He quotes Jack Point in Yeoman of the Guard.
Yes, yes, he does, doesn't he?
So he has been driven mad over the last 880 years and turned...
Yes, turned into a fool from a Shakespeare play.
So this is, what have we got?
The Tempest, 1933 James Hilton's Lost Horizon, which we've also noted on Flight Through Entirety, the 1937 film, which was then refilmed when Nathan and I and James Tiny Boys, as a musical with Peter Finch and Michael York and Olivia Hussey, and I saw it, and it was the Royal Command performance film that year because I think they all needed a nap.
It's really dull.
However, as a child, I thought it looked amazing.
But this is really more Bond villains getaway, you know, Luv action cave, isn't it?
Well, I mean, Hoth is here later, isn't it?
Are we in pine?
We are at Pinewood.
So, yeah, sure.
How young is Brian Blessing?
He's beautiful.
He's got these...
Yeah, a little bit of grain in his beard, but he's got such dark eyes and dark eyes.
He's stunning.
Awfully though, isn't he?
Ultima Thule.
So Ultima Thooley is 1st mentioned in Virgil Eclogs one, and it is the furthest place in the world, and it's spoken of, like, well and truly into the Middle Ages, and it's conceived of being the furthest habitable place, and it's usually located north of Scotland, and it's an island.
And so it, it, um, it is mentioned, it's a real thing and it's freezing cold.
It's only just on the border of human habitability.
And so that's where they get the name from.
So people think it's like looking back historically, they think it might have been Norway, I think.
Well, okay, yeah, maybe, maybe.
I mean, it's one of those things, you know, there's someone Strabo, I think, who is a, you know, geographer.
I think he says that everyone wears blue woad.
Oh, so we're missing this episode.
This is where they use up the jump cut budget for the episode.
We've already lost a scene.
The pre-credit sequence.
I don't know if you wanted this, Konig, Morrow, and Kano are in the commander's office discussing sensory recordings of the world they've just discovered.
They call it ice planet at this point.
And it's affecting the moon's trajectory, though not enough to grasp the moon into its orbit.
But, you know, alpha will be able to be arranged for about a week.
Yeah, I think later on in the dialogue safe, they say 5 days.
The scene ended with Sandra reporting that she's receiving a signal from Ice Plan. and then that's that moment where you see them leaving the office.
I don't think we've lost anything.
In fact, it's kind of nice to start outside.
I like this other introduction.
Can you say much better?
These people know who the moon is.
Yes. about Moonbase Alpha.
They have the same buttons.
Yes.
We have guest star.
Lion blessed.
But we had guest artiste, John Shrapnel. doesn't everyone know John Shrapnel, and just what a big deal.
John Shrapnel was, and is you might know him as a Jerry Anderson fan because his son, Lex, was John in the Thunderbirds movie in 2003.
I cut quite jib of it.
But John Shrapnel is, you know, a superb, superb actor.
And we're very lucky to also have Mary Miller, who was one of the founders of the National Theatre Company in 1963.
She was about 3334.
And so she's the young woman at the end.
She's like John Schrapp.
Yeah, yeah. bit on the side.
Yeah.
And then there's that wonderful scene. smash everything up, not the spoilers, but you know, gets a bit, gets a bit frisky.
A really good story.
I would like to say at this point, um, in terms of Prentice Hancock, you know, a lot has been said about...
The famous Spoonerism.
Yeah, and his performance.
But I am starting to pick up a sort of deliberately repressed...
Homosexuality.
Rage.
Well, I was just going to say emotionality from him.
Like he he does often seem on the on the edge of being a bit more demonstrative.
Like when he said to Conig, just there, you know, we'll be listening for you all the time.
I was getting from him a thing of, I want to tell you how worried I am, but I'm going to be professional.
But is he?
I've got something to say later on about the composition of this away team and Paul's response later on when they go missing.
Yeah, yes.
Because it seems raised on Star Trek as well.
Why put all the senior officers in the await?
Well, if they do that on Star Trek all the time.
Exactly.
It just seems to let's put them all at risk and then let's immediately split the party.
Yes.
Well, I think I can venture that the production reason was because you didn't want to give an Italian actor too much prominence over Martin Landau. didn't like that.
He would have been very cross.
He was actually totally okay with British actors of standing because he felt that, you know, they were, they added and he saw, well, the Landau's, and rightly so, saw that the NTC and the RSC, so the NTC is, you know, started in 63 and it's Olivier's.
But it's interesting that Mary Miller and John Chapnell were both founders of theories. of these illustrious things.
But no, the Landau felt ennobled by the prestige.
You know the same thing, you know, when British actors go over there and plummet up?
Yeah, well, like Stewart, Patrick Stewart.
Yeah, well, you know, a string of Donald Pleasant's doing Italian Gallo films.
You know, I don't know if I've got the pronunciation, right?
Jalao, I beg your pardon.
I 1st remember John Shrapnel in Elizabeth R.
Does anyone remember Glenda Jackson series in the early 70s?
He was the Earl of Sussex.
God that was a good series.
I did look at his IMDb page and he's never not been in work. and he, you know, he still looks impressive.
He doesn't look quite as pretty as he does here.
I think he's always, but he does look impressive.
Sadly, he and Mary Miller died almost the same month in 2020.
So we can't get them on the podcast, but we're, you know, holding a plot device is preventing communications.
Yes.
Plot device.
It's frosted over It's my plot device is shaving creamed over.
Oh, God, he's in Gladiator.
Yes, yeah.
And Troy.
Oh, dear.
These snow guns actually stripped skin off Martin Landau's face.
No.
Yeah.
I think this looks incredibly impressive, can I say?
And we're kind of wandering around like this for about 9 minutes.
But, you know, the pointy little hills of snow are very strange and they're also kind of visible on a larger scale in the model shots, which I think...
Just stunningly beautiful. does look good, but it did mean you didn't have to write 9 minutes of story.
Yeah, no, that's true.
But I'm happy to just look at things.
I had those same pair of goggles and I used to go skiing.
Do you know the, what are they, you picks or you picks?
They're the...
Yeah, yeah, yeah. did notice the brand.
That's how I knew They're sitting on the console of the eagle later on when Alan takes off.
In case I forgot, I should probably jump in that you know who John Shrapnel's good mate was, don't you?
It'll probably help you if I tell you he played Piccha in Nicholas and Alexandria.
Alexandra in 1971.
He was a maid of Tom's.
Oh, really?
Yeah, he and Tom.
Baker to the...
Yeah, I think this just looks incredible, isn't it?
Because it's just the studio and stuff, but just limiting the visibility.
And putting them in the environment by just, you know, blowing crap at them.
You know, it just makes it seem a lot a lot kind of real.
Off a bit of style moment.
Reminds me that Aldi has a ski gear on this Saturday.
Yeah, okay.
No, too good to get this episode out, huh?
Tell her, where are you?
But this is pure loss to her eyes.
That was that was interesting.
I thought, the way they did that.
They're all on the group and they just zoomed in and zoom out again and all of a sudden 2 of the cast were missing.
Yeah.
And then the thing where they all just want to lie down as well.
I'm not acting like a doctor anymore.
I'm just lying down. down.
I just feel so helpless.
This is not a good episode for Barbara.
Can I just say?
Oh, I don't know.
Really?
Well, she gets to lean about a lot and look dewy.
See, she normally is the sort of sensible one.
You know, she's usually right about things.
Am I wrong about that?
Well, she's the super ego.
The thing that struck me and the beautiful jewellery watching this was that it's very similar to the plot of collision course where they all just turn on John.
Yes.
Yeah, and yeah.
Victor and Helena are supposed to be this paragons of scientific rationalism, except when they're not.
No, yeah.
They just, they just turn it off at the drop of a hat.
Well, is it because Ryan Blessed is a sort of famous scientist...
Well, if they're doing it as a knowledge, I wasn't convinced.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Otherwise, Julia calls her Dr. Vaseline.
Look at that.
That's a great shot, isn't it?
Do you think, since she's method, she's stuck ahead in the freezer for?
Oh, yeah, definitely.
So that was her skincare regime.
That's why she still looks like that at the age of 90.
When her daughter was bringing home a new boyfriend, she was had her head in the freezer.
Now, no one has told Nick Tate what the tune is of pack up your troubles in your old kit bag.
So he's just making it up.
No one in the production has heard of this song either.
Well, you know the background we're listening to is Joe 90, Arctic Adventure.
Oh really?
Yes.
And I have to say, thanks to Richard.
Rod and I have been watching an episode of Joe 90 every Sunday morning with breakfast.
It's really lovely, isn't it?
You know what?
Around about episode 8, we're warming to it.
It's kind of like they iron out.
Yep.
The troubles in the concept early on and they have an actual child playing Joe, which has its limitations, but it has its benefits.
I think it works really well.
James, would you like to ask us when we're doing the Joe 90 podcast?
Richard, when are you doing the J90 podcast?
We're doing it.
It's like the 2 Ronnies.
I love these.
They just got some plastic cups from the cafeteria, have they had put them on the end of the thing.
It really bothered me as a child and you just want to crush them and then you get a smack or you get a demerit point or, you know, you don't get your soma that week.
You could crack one of the black.
Just adrenaline.
Rather convincing though.
Yeah I think they look great.
You know what, though?
There's a lot of 1981 Star Wars in this.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, I'm definitely, it is the same crew, basically. and it's the same sound stage and it's the same.
I do like the little Jedi magic Gandalf sticks.
I found myself wondering what the actual lights were.
They were using in that because they're quite effective.
Yeah, yeah. it looks really good.
I mean, the others are just Tesco's lamps, aren't they?
Yeah.
And the funny thing is, given the time period this is made in.
Those light sticks probably have a wire running up the actors are.
Yes.
Occasionally electrocuting them to a car battery in the back pocket.
Oh hang on.
Here we go.
This set is amazing.
It is really amazing.
And if you're under 25, you don't get to wear a robe, you just got to run about in your skin skimpies.
But thank God for that, though.
The Louise Jamieson appreciates it.
Look how pretty they are.
And we also have sort of jerkins that are pretty much the exact cut of the Vok robots from Doctor Who and the robots of death.
Brian's wearing one.
Poor Tom isn't.
It doesn't seem like...
No, it is very 10,000.
Is that Val only on?
Is Valorily on between John and...
She brought her breasts with her.
When 5 heads are better than three.
Yeah.
And there's John in the in the position he insisted upon to the director.
Well, that's what I would be.
I'd be there lying there gazing up into Brian Blessed's eyes.
Who's curling her freaking hair?
Actually, it's probably Brian Bliss, it's looking quite coifed too. isn't he?
And there's Annie Lambert at the back there somewhere.
Oh, wow.
And, you know, from all the things.
Yeah.
So that's like their conversation period or something that's their fire period that they have there.
But I love how they all sleep in this room in sort of various furs and stuff.
And you kind of think maybe for the 1st 2 or 300 years, they were just fucking like rabbits every evening.
And now it's kind of like, don't touch me please.
Now they're just making press on beer.
I hate the way you breathe.
That's right.
Press on beards for John Shrapnel.
Yes.
But no, as you say, James, for the ladies, it's very 100,000 BC.
Sorry.
Sorry, Steph Coburn, don't sue me.
10,000 BC or whatever it was, Raquel Welsh was.
I came up with a new drag name during the week and sent it to Russell T. Davies because I figure I can't use it, but he might be able to.
So I said his drag name should be Raquel Demage.
Alan's singing career is still singing.
Because he's Australian and doesn't know the tune.
Yeah.
Look, I will, I will say it, Space 19 don't really highlights lots of asbestos there.
Space try and hold a tune with all of that down your throat.
Space 1999 really highlights it in approximately 35 seasons of Star Trek.
We have 2 Australians.
She doesn't startle.
I tell you what, she looks can be done.
Tell you what, she's an image.
She looks crimped.
She does.
Somebody's been at her while she's asleep.
Two Australians in Star Trek in approximately 35, 45 seasons.
Yeah, and both of them are played by Nick Tate, actually.
Both of them are dictate. yeah He does a DS9 as well.
Yeah, well, well, that's the thing.
Nila Darren is actually just a really good Nick Tate.
Ah yes.
Well, now we have.
Now we have Jess Bush.
That's true, but she's not playing in Australia.
No, that's true.
It's not also not playing Christine Chapel, but that's not so fair.
It doesn't matter.
It's really Migel Barrett who's not playing Christine Chapel.
Oh, look, I like Jess Bush and whoever she's playing, but unless Christine Chappell has a lobotomy in the following 10 years, it's not the same person.
No bad comes along and wipes a memory.
It's very hard.
Oh yes.
Yes, that is a very kind of Blake 7 outfit, isn't it?
That Brian Blessard is wearing.
It really is.
And look at his insistent browns.
I shall not break this stare, doctor.
I was saying to Nathan earlier, we're roughly in terms of Brian's career, we're roughly on the cusp of him going from being Brian blessed.
To being Brian blessed.
And we're going to get a bit of both this week.
Yeah, yeah.
Here's the...
Yeah, here's Yeoman of the Guard.
So Jackpoint from Yoman of the Guards singing, I have a song to sing, oh.
I think it is.
Got Bjorn in the background, though?
Well, yes, there is always the attribute band, isn't there?
Always.
Well, Jack Tanner even is a kind of Shakespeare name, isn't it?
Like a Tanner is a, you know, it's a whole thing.
He's a rude mechanical of some kind.
Stout yeoman.
Yeah, she's beautiful, Richard.
Your friend.
Mary Miller.
Yeah, yeah. just wonderful.
I love Mary Miller.
So she, again, what did they do?
Pretty much everything.
So, you know, you had the NTCs set up, I guess, as a compliment company to the RSC, but Larry Olivier was involved with both.
What a busy chap he was.
But these were 2 of his star cast, if you'd like, star ensemble.
No, the Landos apparently were particularly chuffed with this episode and the calibre of the cast.
And I think you can see it, especially with Martin.
He's really, there, he just really rises to the moment when he could be, and I really like the underplaying that they both do.
Although she's definitely dripping off the...
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Do you think that's Helena?
I think that is.
Not a stand-in.
No, no, no.
Helen Carter.
I know, but I actually think it's Helena because that's right.
Nick was busy.
They just...
The little detail that I actually appreciate later on is when he wakes up later, he's actually surrounded by little puddles of water.
Yeah, yeah.
And his his costume's wet and his bloody knob's broke, so that's why it was leaking.
Just a little bit of a straight in there. listen to him.
And he's Barry Moore saying.
So when's the party starting?
Yeah, no, look at him.
That's it.
So up for it.
See, that's why.
I don't think it's scientific thing.
It's just like Anushka Hempel's in the other room and we've got Valerie Leon here and...
We've strapped Roger Moore into the into the rigour mortis thing, you know, the into the G-force chair.
So he'll be whizzing around in the cave next door out of mind out of sight.
I think that Brian always has this impish gleam in his eye.
That's because he's thinking naughty thought.
He is.
And there's Valerie Leon, Saint.
When do I get to say something?
She doesn't, but no.
She doesn't.
I've never seen Helen more creeped.
And the girl on the right was also a bond girl and she's in octopus.
Oh, okay.
I think her name's Mary, but I'm sorry, I'm a little bit vague on this stuff, but John Shrapnel, actually, with his lovely coiffe, could also have been in a bikini for this shot and no one would have complained.
Hello, we come from the ice cave.
From the land across the border.
There is a war.
It does get very Shakespeare, doesn't it?
I think he's northern that guy.
Well, lots of planets happen all.
They do.
That is true.
You notice that none of the boys are in Mankinis?
They're only big...
It's one on the back that just commented on.
Yeah, it's a bit of a shame.
They are very covered.
There are one or 2 pretty ones.
There's enough cloth for the men, but not for the women.
You can live here, but you have to all wear bubble.
That's right Yeah, so okay.
So what are we doing?
Poor old, yeah, I just, I don't think that I don't think Babs is having a good day in this one.
So did we think this was salt or artificial salt?
Deaths are the shaving cream.
There is also the spray foam, the firefighting foam.
Really freaking toxic because in these days they had the pfavs and everything.
Yeah, yeah.
So I'm surprised anyone's still alive.
Or actually they're not.
No, Barbara is still with us.
Yeah, but that's true.
Babs and Nick.
And Valerie Leon.
Yeah, but look, they're all sleeping on top of each other.
Yeah, yeah, yes.
It's all getting it's all getting very Barbarilla ice coves, isn't it?
And there's John looking.
I don't know what Mr. Shrapnel's thinking right now, but I know it's quite a lot.
Oh, these 2 I love these.
They really are good, aren't they?
I remember them.
I remember them from the 1st viewing as just being so...
That's beautiful.
Look at that shot.
Some of the shots in this.
Like the 2 of them just there and this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Blow it away compared to what's actually going on with the plot.
Yeah, but that planet exterior with the incredible blue sky.
Now, they have special cups on the moon.
They do.
And it's a green alert.
Did you understand?
They are, sorry?
It's a green alert.
No, I didn't notice that.
They're still taken the Desi, you know, green Guinness that he's brewing somewhere down in the bowels of alpha.
He's still there.
Tony Videshi is on the base. and he's making his own brew.
No, they're still keeping the St.
Patrick's Day theme months afterwards.
So look at the planet.
It's a big crack of doom.
It's stunning, is it?
I get some cream for that.
It's looking...
It was blue before.
It's funny. changed it.
Yeah, I don't know what that was.
It is like the planets always look fantastically kind of. bizarre on space 1999, I think.
They really do.
Why doesn't he have pyjamas?
Why is he sleeping in his clothes?
Old Brian Blessed there. furry Mankinis, don't they?
I suppose.
He's even sleeping with those boots on.
Well, I suppose it's cold.
But not what the girls are just in this time.
Yeah, yeah.
This is where he gets to be all William Hartnerly.
What do you mean?
Busting it.
He's breaking it so that he can stay. hang out with the kids.
Soak it away.
Why destroy your very limited stock of equipment?
Oh, no, they're making it.
They've been here for 100s of years.
They've built lots of those, just out of the... out of the cattle and the stuff, bones.
Bones.
Yeah.
Is that where they had the mention of interstellar strength or is that still to come up?
I wonder what is is that like builder's tea, interstellar strength?
Yeah, yeah.
Yes.
Nope.
So he, they can't hear him, but he can hear them because they're on interstellar strings.
That's right, yes.
Yes.
But this doesn't have interstellar strength because it's only an eagle.
There we are.
Yeah, it's...
We are transmitting on Intzella's drink.
Yes.
So we have the builder's tea.
Yes, I think so.
An extra one for the pot.
Yeah, he does look very moist, doesn't he?
Unpleasantly moist.
Well, that's gonna happen when things heat up.
I suppose.
Actually, you're also sitting under those massive arc lamps.
I don't think that's makeup.
That's just Nick.
I'm Australian.
Yeah, too much.
That looks beautiful. doesn't it?
Lovely?
That's salt, yeah.
Yeah.
Just stunning.
Those miniatures are always just incredible.
In the 70s, people cleaned their teeth with it to make them white.
Did they?
Yes.
That's why they all had their teeth pulled out.
Absolutely.
Snake Pliskin there sitting with Annette Andre at the end of the table.
No, but the hot guy in the back there who's chewing.
He'll be he'll be the guy in the background who I was fancying earlier.
I like this effect on the television.
I've done that.
Just a kaleidoscope.
Good point, because it has to be animated.
It's not, yeah, there's no program in those days to do that.
No, no, it's being done.
Some camera is seeing that and it's being relayed to their kaleidoscopic thingy.
Yeah.
So inventive, weren't they?
Yeah, well that's, I mean, that's always sticks and rubbings.
That's right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
How could anybody trust Brian Blissard to do?
anything.
He's the Butch Sean Bean of the 70s.
I would just stare into his eyes and do whatever he told me.
Well, you know what he said to the dies often. to the Delai Lama, don't you?
No.
They were both 57.
He said, I'm 57.
I have to have it every day.
How do you cope?
Yes, I think I remember.
Sometimes twice.
And I go up mountains.
Dude, he was a mountaineer.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Even Alistair Crowley, so much in common.
He climbed Kilimanjaro or something.
They were so...
Yeah.
The excess of manliness.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He's a lot, isn't it?
I mean, you know, normally you'd give those shots of his to a horse to get them to go faster, wouldn't you?
I don't know why they couldn't sell little vials of Brian Blessed and, you know, on the racing circus.
Look at that.
This is a nasty metaphor for a gentleman's ageing that poor old...
Oh, I can't can't get it off. can't get it off.
Feel for you, Nick. 56 too.
You know, I can't remember what it was for, but when I was living in the UK, There was a series of ads with Brian Blessed.
I can't remember what he was advertising, but sort of each one was each ad was just him telling a terrible pun.
And the one I remember is um, as um...
Oh, it's all right.
He made it.
Just wanted...
Oh, I've made it.
Is is Brian saying?
What type of cheese can you hide a horse in?
Mascarpone.
And then whatever the product was.
But it wasn't cheese.
It wasn't life insurance.
I feel like mental health cover.
I feel like it might have been the channel Dave, which eventually revived Red Dwarf, but I don't know.
That was quite, I think it was...
Is that a beautiful shot as well?
Wow, gorgeous.
It's just an evil going over the...
Over the smog.
Over the empty fire hydrant.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Now, this is the thing before.
I have this theory that Paul is the one that engineers or the senior team to go away on away mission.
So that he can be...
So I'm the commander now.
He can King Ralph.
I'm the commander now.
Because he's very quick to always declare them dead.
Come back, LA.
There's no use looking.
You can't do anything.
It's not really calm.
They must be dead.
It's just a delayed response. they've all gone Yeah, and I mean, like it is kind of reasonable to expect that they're dead, isn't it?
I mean, they don't really know that they're the main characters on the contract in a TV show.
And it is very cold down there.
Yeah, I'm getting a bit of a restrained emotion there.
He's finished now.
He run out. emotion.
That's it.
I'm the commander now.
Return to base Nick.
And then I'll give you some more orders when you arrive.
Now, was...
Because I've missed one of these, was the one I missed the one where it's habitable on the moon and he goes a bit nuts?
No, we haven't done that yet.
Right, okay.
Because that's what I'm kind of, I'm kind of basic on that there's...
Yeah, there is a depth of feeling somewhere in the character, but he blocks it off a lot of the time.
Oh, there's pictures of him smiling out the window, isn't there?
with Sandra?
Yes.
Yeah, yes.
Thoolian salad.
How about that?
Yeah, see, he's gone native and I think it is mostly, um, because if he wasn't on alpha, he would be going to a lot of swingers parties, Mac.
Who's to say he's not right?
Well, that's it.
I think that's why he wants to stay.
Why do you think he got on the side?
First time he's in a smile and Victor's face.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, what do you think he and Philip Maddock used to get up to?
Tiddlywinks?
He's got all that bedroom hair action happening there.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, yeah, yeah And there's a proper solid BBC press on beard out the back.
Did you see that guy earlier?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, I think the main problem is there is just no attempt to, and I'm not talking about Tom Tanner here, but the chap currently standing behind Victor.
There's no attempt.
Oh, cartwheel.
Yeah, no, it's so actively, isn't it?
Like he's just being an actor.
Yeah.
The BBC press on beard guy.
There's no attempt to match the colour of the beard to the colour of the hair.
His hair, which can happen, but usually there's some kind of graduation.
Mine was Fanta. back 20 years ago.
Well, so like that, like that was exactly that pit of peril.
Someone's done her hair again while she's been asleep.
Look.
Yeah, I'm not busy.
I'm a fan.
Do you think it's just the low temperature that's making it?
No. no.
I think someone's doing it. memory metal.
I think it's that bloke at the back.
It's not said anything.
The one that looks like Bjorn from ABBA. don't think it's gonna go well for him.
No.
And that's Frida.
So again, anyone with an Aber name on this show?
Yeah, I saw his love, but good luck.
So this is this is where we find out, right?
Yeah.
Well, it's internet.
She doesn't actually say it, does she?
Well, she does say something about us being frozen.
We don't know.
Yeah.
Okay.
We live in a barracks, but we'd rather come and live here in a rabbit warren under all this shaving foam.
Yeah.
One room.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it would be new people to have sex with for everyone else.
I think that's probably why they're into it.
It's not to do his.
Oh, it is to do his kinky experiments on them, not the ones we think.
Also, there we go.
Any colour as long as it's neutral.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Actually, Tanner's jumper is peeling really badly, isn't it?
800 years.
Oh, even a Pringle will...
Yes, no, you're probably true.
I mean, Uniclo stuff's really good.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But still, it's so 70s, isn't it?
Look at it.
Like with his beads and his kind of like, that's as sexy as hell. old Tanner.
I want to know who did all the stone glass.
Yes.
One of the mad women.
Well, yeah, I think they're the ones that come in and do the hair.
There were some craft that they were doing in the 1st 100 or so years before they got jack of it.
It's kind of we'll do some lead lighting.
Actually, they got sick of the six, they did the craft.
They gave up altogether.
That's right.
And just started smoking the grass.
And so is it 2870 now in like now?
Like, have they, they've gone?
I'm not sure who the time passed for.
Yeah.
Whether they've skipped time or whether these guys, some went through a loop and came back.
That's a good point.
No, they both went through.
The elapsed time for the Ultima Thulians is obviously 880.
There was a hint that Meta had generated these time warps.
Yeah, because also I think too, one of the things it does relativity in a way.
Do you know what I mean?
I mean, what you said, it's one or other of us.
Yeah, has been through a time warp.
Because, I mean, later on, we will have them communicating with Earth and Earth will be the vastly distant future when they finally do communicate.
And so there is that sort of idea that, yeah, look at him.
Look at the guy behind Brian Blessed.
Whoa.
Yeah.
Oh hello.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He looks like the guy that you could buy Tren off at the back of the tin.
He's definitely...
Got to check your bags.
Yes.
Yeah.
So they're kind of not doing Star Trek where everything in space happens at the same time. because they're travelling from place to place and because everything's still weird, you know, that time passes in all sorts of strange ways.
Well, yeah, that's slightly more, let's concentrate more on interesting situations than being absolutely trying to explain everything, scientists.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, well, um, going back to Star Trek, the Cage, there's a line in that that a lot of fans have gone, oh, well, you know, that's contradicted later, where, um, I think it's uh, Lieutenant Jose excitedly tells the people they're rescuing allegedly on Telos for that, um, the time barrier has been broken and people took that to mean, oh, well, time travel's possible.
It's like, or...
Um, since this ship set out, they've solved the problem of time dilation.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
Yeah.
Which makes more, which makes more sense in terms of how Star Trek does interstellar travel.
FTL by its own nature is time shifting.
Yes.
And I think in breakaway, there is a line that when they get blasted out, they do approach the speed of light.
And they don't...
Oh here we go.
Another Martin Bauer.
It's 4 feet long.
Is it a dad's shed project?
breaks my heart.
He actually spent more time on this than he did on the massive, you know, killer ship that you see in, we saw last episode, the big gray one, not the beautiful shuttle.
But it's divided into 4 parts, and he based it on the ship from 1931, I think, things to come, or was it 36?
British.
But I'd like to think it's actually based on the ship in the rescue.
You've got Brian Blister is cocking on, can you imagine?
Nothing he could have hidden anything.
But it's a gorgeous model.
But this is him being Brian Blessed, isn't it?
Like, this is him absolutely being Brian Blessed and we will be gods.
Look at those 2 eyes are lit up like Helena and Ryan.
Yeah, yeah. we go.
Yeah.
No, well, Barry's obviously seen the ladies and once 880 years of them and Helen has still had the blow to the head that she had in the opening king.
But also, Brian Blessed, like they both know him and he's charming.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Now, Wormwood, isn't it in the in Book of Revelations, Wormwood, there's a star.
I can't remember what wormwood is.
I mean, it is a kind of, um, it's a kind, it's bitter.
Absolutely.
Yeah, but it's the last poison.
The last, yeah, the last days.
Yes, yeah.
Here we are at the Clive Palmer and Tucker Colson convention.
Oh, it is too.
I'm voting in November.
How about you?
Yes.
So I was getting, I was getting, um, uh, Tortured Miracle Day vibes from this.
You know, that the idea that immortality, you know, the, the, um, the ancient, the sibyl of Cuma, who wished for immortality, but forgot to wish for, oh, no, and also, um, Aurora's husband.
Let's go with that.
Aurora's husband wished for like eternal life, but forgot to wish for youth.
And so he becomes incredibly old.
And the symbol of cubine like sort of shrivels away in the council will give you a notice for, we're going to uproot that one.
But this, I think this is really well done, and particularly since everyone's sort of very beautiful next door, and here they're all kind of terrifyingly weird.
Don't feel like an Inma bird.
They're still...
There's the extent to which they're still beautiful.
They're just vacant died.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Or extras from a French and Saunders sketch.
Sense of, no, it feels very Scandinwegian modern.
But this whole thing does, of course.
So, and that's the thing too.
They don't want anything.
Like there's nothing to live for and they've lived.
Like, so...
She's seen things, that girl.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, she thought Ace had died or gone to Birmingham.
That's even before she found the swinger's cove.
Yeah, maybe they just don't get invited to the parties anymore.
It gets messy.
They don't they don't respect like 2 nose and a yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's right.
How many people are on that bloody probe?
It doesn't look bad.
Yeah, it seems it's not very probie.
I mean, we did some, I don't know.
Look at all those newbile young, you know, data, more of a ship than a probe, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah. like a, it's not like a probe in Star Trek where they send off one of those little things into the distance from the ship.
It's like a big ass ship for lots of sexy people.
Yeah, I suppose.
Discovery is a ship.
Yeah.
Yes.
So these are the revered ones.
And I actually, the word erraticism isn't a word, by the way, can I just say?
It's just a practical, isn't it?
Yes, I don't think there's a noun.
Yeah, so they stay behind to work towards reclaiming the revered ones rather than throwing them out, given that everyone's stuck with immortality.
And I do like the ending, like the ending is, you know, we're going to go on and have adventures, but you will always be here and we will always think of you being here.
And I thought that was kind of good.
I got the impression these were, to some extent, the results of his experiment.
Yes.
Not just the result of getting bored and moving too long.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
But because, you know, the experiment means that they're ruined in some way and then they're ruined for like centuries. like there's no escape.
They can't die.
You know, he's because that's why this urgency to get stupid victor out of the shower later on, you know.
Now, are we running to get Victor out of the shower?
Yeah.
Yeah, here we go I love the Mercano.
That sucks. explanation here, why we so keen to get in the shower has all the sort of emotional urgency of, as you can see, he was armed and trying to escape.
It's just delivered, just totally flat.
Yeah, yeah.
And like we know why, don't we?
We know why.
It's because Valerie Leon is here and he wants to get to know her a bit better. to explore her filmmic origins.
It wasn't knowledge of the scientific kind he was after.
No, not at all.
Roger Moore patched me just 2 years ago. wasn't even expecting it.
So she's up for it now.
Yeah, that seal's been broken.
Look, and we have that lipless simplus Roger kiss.
Mary Miller's doing her recon of the savages.
Yeah, yeah. thinking as well. outraged.
So, yes, yeah, so I don't know. he's losing it, isn't he?
He's losing it.
Victor and Helena always fall for this.
Yeah.
Yeah, although she was she was right, wasn't she in that previous one where he became a religious maniac and wanted to crash into the planet and it turned out he was right, but at the end of the episode, he said, yeah. rationally right.
Well, he was right for the wrong reason because he was a religious maniac and he just happened to be right or something.
I don't know.
And he said, actually, did the right thing.
But he's trusting her and she put her trust in rationalism.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
But it's an interesting, I think it does put them in interesting dilemma when he says, oh, why don't we let people vote?
Because that seems fair.
Except as the audience for sort of going, well, no, there's in some ways it's not.
Well, because he's trying to manipulate them, but on the other way, it is, it is, it does seem to be a fair proposal.
I think I think the interesting thing is that, of course, they have to be told everything.
Like if they're going to vote, they need to know about the revered ones.
Yes.
And so that seems to be the thing.
And like at this point, what I think is interesting about the this episode sequence is that we've already seen the skeletal hand on someone's wrist, just as a sort of decontextualized image, and nothing like that has happened.
And ordinarily, I think we probably forget that, but I actually found myself thinking about that image all the way through and wondering where it would turn up.
Yeah, yeah.
So it does make a difference to how you watch it.
And so I knew, I think, that we'd got close enough to the end of the episode that I knew how it would definitely play out.
And I think, you know, anyone who's watched any genre fiction at all could probably guess that it was the planet, you know, that was making them immortal and nothing else. lost Horizon.
Oh, and very excitingly, I, yes, more things develop.
Yeah, yeah.
Bob.
John.
Yeah, he actually positions himself as a fool, doesn't he?
So when Jack Tanner tells them to stay away.
They say something, he then later says something about, but they wouldn't listen to a fool.
So he's aware that he's that character, that he plays that role.
And I guess he's midway between the revered ones and everyone else.
Shakespeare gets it, although it's actually much older than Shakespeare.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Warhol was called a holy fool, and apparently it's a very old middle European term in many languages that means that he, the child man who brings God to the people.
So, you know, that there's that or the higher one in American native culture, that is also the holy field, the trickster, the one.
Yeah, and we talk about people...
Well, hello, but not for the family podcast.
Although it's happening right there.
Hello?
Yes, my eyes are up here, but my tits are down there, Jew.
Mr. Shrapnel, and your fingers are quite warm and actually it is cold in here. carry on.
And here's the one I prepare.
Yeah, but the whole the delicacy of him.
I just love him so much.
And again, I don't know if we ever get the chance to see him in anything else he did, but he's amazing in this.
They haven't communicated with Alfie yet.
Well they can't.
Why was Alan coming back?
Because I thought they'd already decided that did I miss something?
Well, just he just came back because he was going, the ship was going to freeze in place.
It wasn't going to be possible.
And he just assumed they were dead because it was like mine.
But he went back to them, but now they're on their way back.
I don't know.
They added it the wrong way round.
Yeah, I'm not quite sure.
It's not made clear at all why they come back.
Did anyone, am I wrong?
Well, I think I think it's just Alan being Alan.
You know, it's like, why does he come back to them?
And why is Bob there?
Bob's there just for contractual reasons looking pretty?
I think Alan has very low job satisfaction in the sense that, you know, the planet almost killed him, but he's willing to come back here now.
Well, there's a few reasons.
Look at Bob reacting to Valerie Leon.
Well, Powderlyon was giving him a look.
I know.
Well, he is pretty. so great.
Yeah.
So which one?
Thool, Thool, or Alpha?
Wow.
Snog, Mario, void.
Sog Mario Void.
Fully alpha.
I think I think Alpha.
I chose Alpha because I thought that thing because you've got you're still exploring, you're going out and doing things.
Yeah.
I mean, this, though, I mean, for the 1st few 100 years, we're having because of constant sex with all of these people.
Taking turns with the press on beard.
Yeah, yeah.
See, that'd be fun.
And you're still exploring shit?
You know, like Julia raised a point with Helena.
As a doctor should be, should be, should be so each, she would have presumably thought about the consequences of eternal life.
I know, like, The laws of thermodynamics.
No, not so much the laws of the dynamics, but all the attendant problems with that.
Although, you know, this was made, maybe not such a thing, not such a thing as in forefront of people's minds today in terms of, you know, the consequences of those sorts of things.
Yeah, yeah.
Maybe I'm analysing that now in 2024 rather than 1970.
Yeah, yeah, although this is a kind of sort of decontextualized sort of philosophical thing, really.
Do you know what I mean?
Like you're not thinking of running out of... resources because no one dies.
Yeah, but the view then is still very much infinite growth is possible sort of thing.
So there's nothing wrong with infinite anything.
I think these days you go infinite.
Let's rethink that.
Yeah.
No, I'm still for it.
I would go for the the eternal life.
I sure that...
Not for a minute ago.
Yeah, well, Alpha's nice, but I'd go for eternal life on Alpha is what I mean.
Oh, okay.
Because I like the decor and alpha, but I also like the not dying that you do.
Just giving yourself a 3rd option, isn't it?
I suppose.
I mean, at least on alpha, someone is possessed in an interesting way at least once a month.
Yeah.
They must know that it's something to do with the planet because they just said some of the alphans want to live, some of the Thulians want to live on alpha. without eternal life, didn't they?
So.
Yeah, but I don't think they realise quite how not eternal it was in the sense that it comes rapidly to a gruesome end sort of before you even arrive.
I think Because they talk about people starting to adapt, don't they?
that like they're expecting that the people who stay here will eventually become immortal.
And it is the usual thing, isn't it?
Like it's dumb space crap as usual, but it's sort of philosophical as well, as always.
There's something strange and metaphysical going on, even in, this is perhaps the most kind of TRAD space thing that we've had so far.
Well, they're not preparing.
What's Brian's character's name again, Dr.?
Dr. Roland or something?
As evil necessarily is misguided.
No, he has just different principles.
It's a very modern take on evil, unless it's the will to power.
We would probably call it narcissistic if we have, you know, indulged ourselves, but it's simply that my will is absolute.
It's the bit the scary bit where he goes.
We're going to go from planet to planet and be gods, you know, and you just think, yeah, no, you're a maniac, dude.
Although, that beard.
Yeah, no, yeah.
Yeah.
God on his best day doesn't have a beard like Brian Blesser, I reckon.
Look at that.
See, I'd just do anything he said.
Really love Mary Miller.
Yeah, she's really good, isn't she?
She pins this whole story.
John Shrapnel does gorgeous glittering things, but she's the earth centre of this.
She's the she's the tent peg of this.
And that lovely moment when she just smiles at him and say, look, I forgive you for being a complete asshole this last week.
It's fine.
And I'm just talking about rehearsals.
Look at that with the lighting as well, back here.
Yeah.
Gorgeous Oh, okay, we're looking for we're looking for Jack.
Yes, and so Jack and Jack's broken.
Yeah, yeah, we had him crying before, didn't we?
Except his brokenness here is to become sane again.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, yes, I like that.
Giggle.
He's good.
He's so good.
So good.
I wish we had had more of him.
Yeah.
And that. you will win.
Like, I just think that's so terrifying.
That's the moment, I think, that I realised that, you know, that poor old Brian Blessed wasn't long for this world.
I do like the scene at the end too, where, where we get to, we get to them, to, we get to debrief.
You know, we don't just disappear and never think. say goodbye to each other.
Yeah, yeah, I think that's really good.
Yes, Ultima Thuli is a jealous woman.
Probably.
And now do some there you go, John.
Yeah, bit of acting.
I trained for this, love.
Exit pursued by a bear.
I never even heard the dinner gong.
How good is this?
All right, just get fanboy again.
I still love this set.
Every set up.
Oh good.
There's nothing I don't believe.
Yeah, yeah.
So even in shows like...
No, no, I love the Eagle.
Eagles, my favourite spaceship.
Yeah, that would have been anything.
There's nothing and it's my...
Don't touch him.
This is the exciting bit where we get special guest appearance by Dame Joan Collins, who's later to appear.
Look, I think this effect is wonderful, but just to bring it down a bit.
I did feel as though the whole episode was just a vehicle for this one effect.
It is great.
It is Lost Horizon.
It's exactly what happens when the girl, Maria, walks out of the ice cave with the explorers and turns into Joe. But I love, look at, look at Barbara giving it.
Look at Barbara.
He's really going for it. quite startled, actually.
Oh, yuck.
Oh, it's all just kind of...
That's so great.
That is joke, isn't it?
Well, it burned up. did burn up.
He's still smoking.
He called me a corpse.
Shouldn't that have been an exothermic reaction?
I don't know how to get away with that little burns on that.
Who's cleaning that up?
That's what Victor's saying right there. right.
Yes, but he's saying it for different reasons.
Ooh, do I get to clean this up?
Yeah, see this.
I love this.
He's in charge.
He's surrounded by beautiful women.
Yeah.
All the Totty.
Right there.
And the actual beards.
Hot guy there.
Actual, yes, actual beard guy.
Yep.
Yeah, attractive young people.
On the planet, fully.
Sandra.
I am in shot, aren't I?
Nothing to do this episode.
Did we see Tanya today?
Oh yeah, she's right there.
Oh, is she?
Yeah, to the to the left.
Tanner Alexander.
Excellent.
Okay, good.
Marvellous.
There's Paul.
Damn it. all back.
You'll find another planet to send them to you.
Exactly.
John John's who's never disturbed by the fact that his senior crew are willing to shit on him at any opportunity.
Yeah, no he likes it.
Like, it's like, ooh, you know?
A shiny thing.
Fuck off, commander.
It's like, we're going to do this now.
Ooh, a free coupon for a cheeseburger.
Fuck off, commander.
And once this, is it death that gives meaning to life in the end, and then Tanner says, if there is an end, he's remembering him saying that, what does that even mean?
Maybe there's no, like, what does that mean?
I don't even know what's what we're meant to be thinking about.
Oh it's the formula.
I mean, it has no meaning.
Yeah, he's saying the same thing.
And maybe they will live forever.
It's a lovely loop.
Yeah.
Probably elegant loop.
Well, maybe death doesn't give life its meaning. because it doesn't have a meaning.
Whoa, hello.
Nietzsche.
I'd like to say, I'd like to say that it's the causal nobius loop and that each gives meaning to the other.
And then we cannot have light without dark and we cannot have... rather too nihilistic for me, I'm sorry.
Well, yeah, I know.
I don't see why not.
It's very high concept.
Anthony Turpoloff wrote this.
Well, actually, his wife wrote Elizabeth Burrows, and being in the nature of the 70s, she gets co-credited.
But she was quite a good writer.
I mean, not quite well.
She a very good writer in her own right.
She did one.
They knew of her because she did one in the last series with Martin Lando and Barbara Bean for Mission Impossible that was particularly quirky and interesting on the moral philosophy. stuff, but I hadn't watched it, so I just read the notes.
But, um, yeah, again, Turpilov, we've loved everything else.
He does.
He'll do Infernal, she'll do Infernal Machine.
Oh, yeah, okay.
With Leo McCern, Damien O McCern.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, straight his own.
Um, and um, 2 Australians on the moon.
I think this had some lovely cod Shakespeare and just perfectly right for, you know, a young mind to be engaged.
Yeah.
Gorgeous.
It did look really stunning. funnels.
Yes, absolutely.
On your probe.
Well, what do you think?
Do we need to plug anything?
Yes.
The usuals?
We've got something coming up, haven't we, Brandon?
We do, we do.
So yes, later this month, the three-handed game will conclude our reach for the stars theme with the white dwarf.
Oh, and honour Blackman.
Oh, wonderful.
And not Tom, Brian Blesser, but George Rupachek.
Okay.
He's in a thing.
And I guess 500 year diary is continuing.
It's got 3 more episodes. of this season to go.
And so there's always that, I guess.
Yes.
Oh, and in the BJPJ game show this month. are playing Cat Quest.
Yes, I'm playing Catquest as well.
I cleaned the Trione this morning.
In that case, all that remains is for me to say, until next time, remember that before you make that pitch to the board of directors, it might be a good idea to apply a bit of moisturiser.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Good night.
Bonnui.
Good then.